Create migration guide for BoxDecoration.shape (#7704)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/boxdecoration-shape-migration.md

---
title: Migration guide for BoxDecoration.circle
description: Removal of BoxDecoration.circle and how to migrate
---

## Summary

This change removes `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)`. Existing apps
should use `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())` instead.

## Context

> BoxDecoration.shape uses an enum. Each new enum value requires new code

Reviewer: **nit**: For consistency with [line 26](https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/7704/files#diff-0d701f8e6804cadb5e0a2f3fedd12633cf31544c7d2d29efcd6f36b94a2443bbR26), change this to `BoxDecoration.shape`.

**question:** Should this be `BoxDecoration(shape)`? If the code was `BoxDecoration{shape: BoxShape.circle}`, I could see this being `BoxDecoration.shape`, but it's not.

Author: The code is `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)`

Reviewer: **question:** Right. So, why is it referred to as `BoxDecoration.shape` instead of `BoxDecoration(shape)`?

Author: Because I'm referring to the property value, like `A.b is an enum, so it has this bad behavior`.

If you do a = BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle), then a.shape, you get what I'm referring to.

It is not a big deal, I can make the way you want, both work.

Author: I tried to reword a bit, it is weird, because "`BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` uses an enum`". BoxDecoration.shape is the direct property and how it is used in the documentation since it is a property.

Reviewer: @bernaferrari : If I'm off on this, I'll accept what you have here. No need to pretzel this.

> in a bunch of places. That new code likely won't get tree-shaken out,
> since the compiler doesn't know which values are never used.
> This has a permanent binary size cost even for people who don't use it.
> Flutter moved to ShapeBorders rather than BoxShape for new
> shapes, and the existence of BoxShape is just a legacy feature.

Reviewer: **suggestions:** Tighten up the language. This is not required, just recommended.

```suggestion
in many places. That new code may not shake out,
since the compiler doesn't know which values never get used.
`BoxDecoration` has a permanent binary size cost,
even for people who don't use it.
Flutter moved to `ShapeBorders` rather than `BoxShape` for new
shapes, and the existence of `BoxShape` remains as a legacy feature.
```

---
title: Migration guide for BoxDecoration.circle
description: Removal of BoxDecoration.circle and how to migrate
---

## Summary

> This change removes `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)`. Existing apps
> should use `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())` instead.

Reviewer 2: `This change` does not make sense in the context of the website. A lot of users do not follow specific changes on github. 

```suggestion
The `shape` parameter of `BoxDecoration` has been deprecated. Existing uses
of `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` should use
`ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())` instead.
```

Author: Done :)

## Context

> `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` uses an enum. Each new enum value requires new code
> in many places. That new code may not shake out,
> since the compiler doesn't know which values never get used.
> `BoxDecoration` has a permanent binary size cost,
> even for people who don't use it.
> Flutter moved to `ShapeBorders` rather than `BoxShape` for new
> shapes, and the existence of `BoxShape` remains as a legacy feature.
> 
> Use `ShapeDecoration`. It aligns with the rest of the Flutter API.
> `BoxShape` has been deprecated.
> Continuing to use that feature can cause confusion.

Reviewer 2: This reads a bit odd.

I rearranged it a bit, feel free to use or ignore..

```suggestion
The enum `BoxShape` has been deprecated, as increasing the number of supported shapes through enums created unnecessary complexity and performance costs. Users should migrate to use `ShapeDecoration` in conjunction with `ShapeBorder`, the replacement for `BoxShape`.
```

> `BoxShape` has been deprecated.

This isn't in the proposed change.

> `BoxShape` remains as a legacy feature.

This isn't necessarily true. If it is deprecated, we will remove it later.

Author: Technically the property `shape` in BoxDecoration has been deprecated, the enum is still there for InkWell which has nothing to do with it, but they use the same enum.

Author: I tried to do:

> The enum property `BoxShape shape` from `BoxDecoration` has been deprecated,
as increasing the number of supported shapes through enums created
unnecessary complexity and performance costs.
Users should migrate to use `ShapeDecoration` in conjunction with
`ShapeBorder`, the replacement for `BoxShape`.

## Description of change

> Remove `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` and `BoxDecoration.shape`.

Reviewer 2: What should the user replace it with? Are there other cases of using `BoxShape` that users may need to migrate?

Author: No because we are not changing InkWell.

## Migration guide

- Replace `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` with
`ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())`.
- Remove the `BoxDecoration.shape` property from

> `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.rectangle)`.

Reviewer 2: This can go up in the preceding section.

When you use `Border`,
`CircleBorder(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` inherits

> the `Border.all(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` values.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure where this fits into the context of this guide. Can you explain more?

Author: If you have `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle, border: Border.all(width: 20)`, this becomes now `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder(side: BorderSide(width: 20)))`. In this scenario, Border becomes BorderSide.

Code before migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
BoxDecoration(
  shape: BoxShape.circle,
)

BoxDecoration(
  shape: BoxShape.circle,
  border: Border.all(width: 20, color: Colors.red),
  boxShadow: [],
)

BoxDecoration(
  shape: BoxShape.rectangle,
)
```

Code after migration:

<!-- skip -->
```dart
ShapeDecoration(
  border: CircleBorder(),
)

ShapeDecoration(
  border: CircleBorder(width: 20, color: Colors.red),
  shadows: [],
)

BoxDecoration(

>   shape: BoxShape.rectangle,

Reviewer 2: If `BoxShape` is deprecated, why are we still using it?

Author: Good catch!

)
```

## Timeline

Landed in version: TBD<br>
In stable release: not yet

## References

{% include docs/master-api.md %}

API documentation:

* [`BoxDecoration` (3.3.6)][]

> * [`BoxDecoration` (3.4.0)][]

Reviewer 2: I am not familiar with this version specific notation. Are there other migration guides like this? What will this mean in the context of someone reading it when Flutter is at version 10?

Author: Yes, I copied from somewhere else. But I just changed to `BoxDecoration` stable and `BoxDecoration` main.

Relevant issues:

* [Deprecate `BoxDecoration.shape` issue][]

Relevant PRs:

* [Deprecate `BoxDecoration.shape` PR][]

<!-- Stable channel link: -->
[`BoxDecoration` (3.3.6)]: {{site.api}}/flutter/lib/src/painting/BoxDecoration-class.html

<!-- Master channel link: -->
{% include docs/master-api.md %}

> [`BoxDecoration` (3.4.0)]: {{site.master-api}}/flutter/lib/src/painting/BoxDecoration-class.html

Reviewer 2: These version numbers will go out of date every time we tag a build or cut a release. I think they can be omitted.

---
title: Migration guide for BoxDecoration.circle
description: Removal of BoxDecoration.circle and how to migrate
---

## Summary

> `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` was removed, and existing apps should
> use `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())` instead.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Use active voice and simplify the language.
```suggestion
This change removes `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)`. Existing apps should
use `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())` instead.
```

## Context

> According to [`Hixie comment`]):

Reviewer 2: Users may not know who Hixie is. I think it is ok to include this explanation without attribution. :)

> Each enum value is a lot of new code in a bunch of places, including in code
> we don't control (e.g. app code, that's why the Google tests are failing),
> so we'd need to write a migration guide and migrate a bunch of code.
> Each new enum value requires new code in a bunch of places.
> That new code likely won't get tree-shaken out, since I don't think the
> compiler can know which values are never used. So this has a permanent
> binary size cost even for people who don't use it.
> In principle, we've moved to ShapeBorders rather than BoxShape for new
> shapes, and the existence of BoxShape is just a legacy feature at this
> point. Adding more shapes encourages people to use BoxShape in the future.

> Due to this, BoxShape isn't needed anymore and can be a source of confusion.
> ShapeDecoration also aligns better to the rest of the Flutter API.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Make the copy more concise.
```suggestion
Use `ShapeDecoration`. It aligns with the rest of the Flutter API. `BoxShape` has been deprecated.
Continuing to use that feature can cause confusion.
```

Reviewer 3: The @Hixie comment is being removed from this PR, right? 👍

Author: Yes.

## Description of change

> `BoxDecoration.shape` was removed.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Active voice.
```suggestion
Removed `BoxDecoration.shape`.
```

## Migration guide

> When `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)`, replace it with
> `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())`. When
> `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.rectangle)`, just remove the BoxDecoration.shape
> property. If Border is used,
> `CircleBorder(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` shall inherit
> the `Border.all(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` values.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Make copy more concise.
```suggestion
- Replace `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.circle)` with `ShapeDecoration(shape: CircleBorder())`.
- Remove the `BoxDecoration.shape` property from `BoxDecoration(shape: BoxShape.rectangle)`.

When you use `Border`,
`CircleBorder(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` inherits
the `Border.all(width: ..., color: ..., strokeAlign: ...)` values.
```
